README.md, before:

SCOM Connector for Icinga 2
===========================

The SCOM connector will help you import alert data from SCOM into Icinga 2.

It helps you to update Icinga's configuration with Hosts monitored by SCOM.

The other part of the tool will query all open alerts from SCOM and publish that
status into Icinga, so you can see and get alerted about open problems.

## Notice

This tool is currently work in progress, but feel free to play and comment! :-)

## Requirements

* Perl, at least 5.10 (tested on that platform)
* FreeTDS, the MSSQL database API for Unixoid systems
* DBD::Sybase for perl - the perl database driver to FreeTDS
* DBD::mysql for perl - for connecting to Icinga's IDO

You also need:
* Read-only access to SCOM's MSSQL database
* Read-only access to Icinga's IDO database

## How it works

Have a look at `icinga2_scom.conf`, it contains some basic configuration Icinga
must have for the integration. You can edit some of the objects, for e.g. to add
vars you need in your setup.

This basic file will give you a few things:
* CheckCommand - to run the state sync
* Host template
* Service template
* Host "SCOM Connector"
  * Service "SCOM Alert collection" - this runs the state synchronization
  * Service "SCOM unassigned Alerts" - alerts that can not be assigned get send here

When you run the tool in config mode:

```
scom_connector config
```

It will output:

* a Host object for every computer monitored by SCOM (dummy check from template)
* with a Service called "SCOM Alerts" (in passive mode)

TODO: example

The Service "SCOM Alert collection" from Host "SCOM Connector" will take care
about running status updated every minute.

```
scom_connector monitor
```

That will do the following:

1. Retrieve all alerts from SCOM's database
  * will be aggregated by host, server, and other alerts (generic SCOM alerts)
2. Get all SCOM hosts Icinga knows about
   (so we can avoid problems with config drift)
3. For each hosts build a summary of active alerts
4. Summarize all alerts that could not be assigned to an object Icinga knows
5. Submit the status to Icinga via its command pipe
6. Clear the status of objects we have not updated with alerts in this run
   (again via command pipe)

TODO: debug output as example

This means we should update the status of every SCOM object every time the tool
runs.

TODO: screenshots

## Install

Install all needed requirements.

Put the scom_connector somewhere Icinga can execute it, I'd recommend
`/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector`.

Copy `scom_connector.conf.example` to `/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector.conf`
and edit it to match your environment. The file can be put somewhere else when
you use an `-C` argument on execution.

Note: In addition you should make sure to set `tds version` in FreeTDS config,
usually at `/etc/freetds.conf`.

```
[global]
tds version = 7.2
```

Test if the configuration outputted makes sense:

```
/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector config
```

The monitor command should publish everything under unassigned:

```
/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector monitor
```

Now put all the config files in Icinga's config space:

```
mkdir /etc/icinga2/conf.d/scom
cp icinga2_scom.conf /etc/icinga2/conf.d/scom/basic.conf
/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector config >/etc/icinga2/conf.d/scom/generated.conf
service icinga2 reload
```

When you run the tool in debug mode you should see what it does:
```
/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector monitor -d
```

Make sure to update the config regularly, maybe by Cron.

## Configuration

The config file should be put in the same directory as the script, thats where
the script will look by default.

You can use any other path with adding `-C /fullpath/foobar.conf` on execution.

Any content should be valid Perl code, be careful.

By default you should only configure:
* SCOM database connection
* Icinga IDO connection
* Icinga's command pipe location

See `scom_connector.conf.example` for examples.

## Contributing

You can contribute to this project via GitHub: https://github.com/lazyfrosch/icinga2-scom-connector

* Fork the project
* Commit and push to your fork
* Send me a pull request

## License

This tool was created during my work as a consultant for [NETWAYS](http://www.netways.de) - we love open source.

Copyright (c) 2015 Markus Frosch <markus@lazyfrosch.de>, NETWAYS GmbH <info@netways.de>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You can find a full version of the license in the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Add debugging functionality with --dump and --simulate
Check README changes for a detailed explaination.

README.md, after:

SCOM Connector for Icinga 2
===========================

The SCOM connector will help you import alert data from SCOM into Icinga 2.

It helps you to update Icinga's configuration with Hosts monitored by SCOM.

The other part of the tool will query all open alerts from SCOM and publish that
status into Icinga, so you can see and get alerted about open problems.

## Notice

This tool is currently work in progress, but feel free to play and comment! :-)

## Requirements

* Perl, at least 5.10 (tested on that platform)
* FreeTDS, the MSSQL database API for Unixoid systems
* DBD::Sybase for perl - the perl database driver to FreeTDS
* DBD::mysql for perl - for connecting to Icinga's IDO

You also need:
* Read-only access to SCOM's MSSQL database
* Read-only access to Icinga's IDO database

## How it works

Have a look at `icinga2_scom.conf`, it contains some basic configuration Icinga
must have for the integration. You can edit some of the objects, for e.g. to add
vars you need in your setup.

This basic file will give you a few things:
* CheckCommand - to run the state sync
* Host template
* Service template
* Host "SCOM Connector"
  * Service "SCOM Alert collection" - this runs the state synchronization
  * Service "SCOM unassigned Alerts" - alerts that can not be assigned get send here

When you run the tool in config mode:

```
scom_connector config
```

It will output:

* a Host object for every computer monitored by SCOM (dummy check from template)
* with a Service called "SCOM Alerts" (in passive mode)

TODO: example

The Service "SCOM Alert collection" from Host "SCOM Connector" will take care
about running status updated every minute.

```
scom_connector monitor
```

That will do the following:

1. Retrieve all alerts from SCOM's database
  * will be aggregated by host, server, and other alerts (generic SCOM alerts)
2. Get all SCOM hosts Icinga knows about
   (so we can avoid problems with config drift)
3. For each hosts build a summary of active alerts
4. Summarize all alerts that could not be assigned to an object Icinga knows
5. Submit the status to Icinga via its command pipe
6. Clear the status of objects we have not updated with alerts in this run
   (again via command pipe)

TODO: debug output as example

This means we should update the status of every SCOM object every time the tool
runs.

TODO: screenshots

## Install

Install all needed requirements.

Put the scom_connector somewhere Icinga can execute it, I'd recommend
`/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector`.

Copy `scom_connector.conf.example` to `/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector.conf`
and edit it to match your environment. The file can be put somewhere else when
you use an `-C` argument on execution.

Note: In addition you should make sure to set `tds version` in FreeTDS config,
usually at `/etc/freetds.conf`.

```
[global]
tds version = 7.2
```

Test if the configuration outputted makes sense:

```
/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector config
```

The monitor command should publish everything under unassigned:

```
/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector monitor
```

Now put all the config files in Icinga's config space:

```
mkdir /etc/icinga2/conf.d/scom
cp icinga2_scom.conf /etc/icinga2/conf.d/scom/basic.conf
/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector config >/etc/icinga2/conf.d/scom/generated.conf
service icinga2 reload
```

When you run the tool in debug mode you should see what it does:
```
/etc/icinga2/plugins/scom_connector monitor -d
```

Make sure to update the config regularly, maybe by Cron.

## Configuration

The config file should be put in the same directory as the script, thats where
the script will look by default.

You can use any other path with adding `-C /fullpath/foobar.conf` on execution.

Any content should be valid Perl code, be careful.

By default you should only configure:
* SCOM database connection
* Icinga IDO connection
* Icinga's command pipe location

See `scom_connector.conf.example` for examples.

## Contributing

You can contribute to this project via GitHub: https://github.com/lazyfrosch/icinga2-scom-connector

* Fork the project
* Commit and push to your fork
* Send me a pull request

## Debugging

There are features to help with debugging.

Dumping will allow you to write the data retreived from databases to files.

These dumped files can be loaded in simulation mode, in this mode don't
have to be able to connect to any database or the command pipe.

```
scom_connector config --dump
scom_connector monitor --dump
```

This will write `entitydata.dump` (config), `alertdata.dump` and
`icingahostdata.dump` (monitor) to the current working directory.

Simulation mode will expect these files also in CWD.

```
scom_connector config --simulate
scom_connector monitor --simulate
```

You should anonymize those dump files, before sending them to anyone...

## License

This tool was created during my work as a consultant for [NETWAYS](http://www.netways.de) - we love open source.

Copyright (c) 2015 Markus Frosch <markus@lazyfrosch.de>, NETWAYS GmbH <info@netways.de>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You can find a full version of the license in the LICENSE file.
